IO REVIEWS

Dear Dr. Springman:

We regret that we cannot accept your manuscript "Foreign Influence by Authoritarian Governments: Introducing New Data and Evidence" for publication in International Organization.

Comments from three expert reviewers can be found below.  The reviewers do not support publication of this manuscript in IO.  The reviewers appreciate the new data collection, but they correctly point out that presenting new data is not sufficient to support a research article in IO.  We expect theoretically driven analysis that has generalizable implications.  In this case, the reviewers find the analysis of Russian influence leading up to the Ukraine invasion to be insufficiently theoretically motivated.  The reviewers also have questions and concerns about the design and execution of the data collection.  For example, they wonder about the choices of countries to consider, and they have concerns about the automated coding. 

We have read the manuscript ourselves, and based both on the advice of the reviewers and on our own evaluation of the manuscript, we are ending the review process here.  IO publishes only a very small fraction of the manuscripts that it receives. This means that many of the manuscripts we decline to publish eventually land in good journals, and we hope that this will be your experience. We also hope the reviewer comments are useful as you continue your work on this topic.

Thank you for your interest in International Organization.

Sincerely,

Ashley Leeds and Ayse Zarakol
for the Editorial Team at
International Organization

Comments from the Reviewers:

Reviewer #1: This is an impressive paper that introduces a new dataset on "foreign influence operations" by two global powers, China and Russia, in a sample of aid-receiving countries. Based on automatic coding of newspaper articles from a new large text corpus, the dataset covers the period 2012-2024. While I believe that this project represents a major step in the automatic coding of political science data, it is not a good fit for IO. It is a dataset paper that introduces a new data collection and illustrates its application with a number of analyses, but does not address a new research question or theoretical puzzle. The patterns that are shown (spikes in FIO around major international events) are interesting, but not particularly surprising. In addition, I have doubts about some of the empirical patterns presented here, also because the paper does little to validate the automatic coding and to understand better what the automatic coding actually picks up. The paper
should be submitted to a journal that accepts dataset descriptors such as Nature's Scientific Data, or one of the political science journals that do this.   

Case selection. Absent a clear theoretical focus and framework, it is difficult to understand what drives the case selection in this study. Many authoritarian countries exert international influence. I guess it's fine to focus on China and Russia only, but why restrict the targets to the set of aid-receiving countries? If we are interested in explaining the occurrence of FIOs, this is close to a selection on the dependent variable (the paper defines aid as a type of economic influence). This selection brackets out the massive Russian and Chinese influence in many of the developed democracies globally.

Methodology. I have some major reservations about the data generation process, which largely relies on automatic coding. Figure 1 suggests that the source text of articles was simply scraped from the web". This may be possible, but many news websites are paywalled and prevent web scraping. On p. 7, the manuscript states that the detection of the 22 event categories is based on a training sample of only 3,400 articles. This is a very small training set for a relatively complex coding task - we have 22 event categories, which, however, are supposed to be detected in more than 60 target countries. This gives us, on average, less than three articles per event category per country. I doubt that this is sufficient to detect extremely fuzzy events such as "diaspora activation" or "trade action". These events can refer to a wide variety of actual events, and the size of the training data is not nearly sufficient to capture this. These concerns could be addressed by a thorough
validation of the coded data. However, the paper fails to include any validation of the data. This is also complicated by the fact that the methodology does not produce coded events, but rather identifies words and word combinations related to the particular event categories: ("While this method does not directly allow us to code individual RAI events", p. 19). Given that much progress has been made in the automated coding of events, I find this rather suboptimal. The methodology does not produce actual events (as per Table 1), which could clearly be identified and be validated by human coders. Together with the relatively simple geo-referencing of the articles (check for Geonames place names in the first 600 characters, otherwise reference the article to the source's home country), I am not convinced that this method really picks up FIO that are really distinct from the major global events that supposedly trigger these FIOs. For example, the major spike in Russian FIOs at
the exact date of the Russian invasion of Ukraine (Figure 6) could simply be due to many outlets in the target countries reporting about this event.

Minor issues:
* There is a large number of unresolved references in the document, as for example on p. 4: "[blair2022foreign]", or in footnotes 19 and 22.
* P. 19 says that "While this method does not directly allow us to code individual RAI events" (p. 19), the paper goes to state that "we sum the individual events according to their theme". If there are no events, how can you sum them up?
* Typo in abstract: "langauage"



Reviewer #3: This is a very interesting article that shows a lot of promise.  Indeed, this is an interesting approach to foreign influence by Russia and China in great power conflict.  I would like to see more discussion about attempts at influence in many of these countries by citing some of the qualitative studies about how both Russia and China influence other countries.  For example, there is a new book chapter on Russian influence in Africa which examines the Africa Corps (Wagner Group) among others, written by Davis and Jhinaoui in the book Breaking Point published by Rowman and LITTLEFIELD.  In fact, this book might be useful to the authors in examining Russian motivations and their relations with other countries leading up to and after the Ukraine War.  Also, there is another article that would be good for the authors to cite in the Journal of Indo-Pacific Affairs on Great Power Conflict and Ukraine.  This literature will help the authors provide the necessary
theoretical narrative for discussing great power influence, which is currently the weakest part of the paper.  In fact, the authors should really rewrite the theoretical section to have a better catch as to why great power influence is important and then discuss their contributions.

The database introduced by the authors looks very interesting.  It would be interesting to examine how active the Wagner Group has been in some of these countries examined to see how the approach of influencing specific countries changes depending on whether there is a significant presence of the Wagner Group in Russia's case or economic aid in the case of China.

A more minor point is that the authors do not discuss the ideologies of the media they are analyzing.  For example, the Xinhua news is very pro government in China, whereas the Moscow Times is anti regime and has been essentially closed.  Perhaps a small case study of examining media articles by RT and Xinhua in some of those countries could provide more context to what the authors are trying to show in this article.  At this point, there is not enough context in this article to understand the implications.  The first step to fixing this is to provide the context discussed above on great power competition and influencing the public through media (a part of hybrid warfare).  The second step would be to give more examples using the media, maybe specifically RT and Xinhua.

Overall, I think that this article has a lot of promise if it is significantly revised.  I am convinced this is an important topic, the authors just need to do a better job of nesting their contributions within the larger literature of great power conflict and the challenge to the global order underway by China and Russia.


Reviewer #4: This study introduces a new dataset, "Resurgent Authoritarian Influence (RAI)," which covers influence activities by China and Russia in 62 aid-receiving countries. To illustrate the potential applications of the dataset, the study shows that Russia increased its influence activity -- particularly through diplomacy, economic power and hard power -- in the months leading up to its invasion of Ukraine, and examines the effects of ideological distance and trade dependence on Russia's RAI activities. On the one hand, this dataset has a potential to become a valuable addition to the discipline, especially given that it is sourced from both domestic and international news outlets and will be updated every 90 days. On the other hand, the study could improve by better demonstrating how the dataset enhances our understanding of authoritarian influence, by providing insights that might otherwise remain obscure. As this is an article submission, it is especially important
to provide a more thorough discussion of the theoretical expectations about Russia's influence activities and offer new insights into authoritarian influence (which might not have been testable without this dataset).

First, it is important to clearly identify the value-added contributions of the dataset. RAI's key contribution is that it provides information and cover different dimensions of influence activities. While existing datasets, such as AidData's Chinese development finance dataset, focus on specific areas of aid operations, RAI extends its coverage to include dimensions such as diplomatic actions, soft power, and domestic interference. This broader scope is a notable contribution.

However, this study can better highlight this value-added contribution -- the importance of examining various dimensions of influence activities. For instance, the study mentions, "we can also learn about whether these tools are used as substitutes or complements to other types of influence." This is a promising avenue for exploration, and it would have been helpful to see some empirical analysis addressing this question. Relatedly, in the analysis of Russia's influence activities leading up to the invasion of Ukraine, there should be some discussions about why the determinants of the use of diplomacy, economic power or hard power can be different across the dimensions. Currently, the discussion on p. 18 and on pp. 20-21 focuses on why these tools may be useful before engaging in military action and whom Russia is expected to target, but it provides limited discussion on with specific tools would be used over others. In short, there should be a convincing theoretical
motivation for why we should examine multiple dimensions of influence activities and how engagement may vary across these dimensions (especially in the discussion of the example case).

The focus on multiple dimensions also comes with some costs. One key downside of examining multiple dimensions is the limited country coverage. The scope of coverage is limited compared to other datasets, such as AidData's Chinese development finance dataset. RAI provides information on 62 countries, whereas AidData 3.0 covers 148 low- and middle-income countries. Given the diverse dimensions covered in the RAI data, it is understandable that expanding coverage would be challenging. However, this trade-off should be explicitly acknowledged in the study.
Second, I have some concerns regarding the measures used in the study. One major issue is related with its reliance on news reports. News media have limited capacity and space for reporting, and when one issue gains significant attention, it often reduces coverage of other topics. For example, if a salient domestic event occurs, the relative coverage of foreign countries becomes more limited. Similarly, if there are significant diplomatic events involving other countries, attention to China and/or Russia may decrease. For instance, Figure 6, which depicts decreased Chinese activities following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, may be subject to this issue. China might have maintained a similar level of RAI activities in 2022-2024, but their activities may have been underreported due to the increased media attention on Russia.

Relatedly, while the study claims that it "minimizes concerns that the salience of these issues in international discourse is driving increased coverage," the general salience of China/Russia's influence could still lead to increased coverage of specific events involving China/Russia. Such events are more (less) likely to capture media attention due to the increasing (decreasing) salience of China/Russia's influence. Media outlets may report on past trade agreements or investments, highlighting them as part of the broader narrative on China/Russia's growing influence.

This problem is exacerbated when focusing on the relative share of articles. In many instances, the study presents Russia's influence activities as a proportion of the total influence activities (Russia + China). However, this approach can be misleading. For example, both Russia and China might have increased their activities, but the share might not reflect the magnitude of either increase. Conversely, if both decreased their activities, the share of Russian influence activities might still appear to rise relative to China. To avoid such false relative comparisons, it would be more straightforward to present the activities of China and Russia separately.

Third, the example study does not effectively convey the importance of examining multiple dimensions of RAI activities (which is the main contribution of this dataset). While the introduction notes that the study "draw[s] on international political economy and foreign policy research to derive expectations about how Russia may have changed its foreign influence behavior in advance of the invasion," it was not clear what body of literature this study draws upon, and the theoretical discussion was lacking in general. Can we ex ante draw some theoretical expectations about how the ideological alignment or economic dependence might have influenced its RAI activities differently with regards to economic power, hard power, and diplomacy? And what are the theoretical motivations for examining economic dependence? There was not much discussion about it. Overall, it is important to draw some theoretical expectations and demonstrate how the data allow testing these expectations. Also,
it will be informative to present the results on soft power and domestic interference because they can serve as a placebo test (as the authors do not expect Russia to expand their activities using these measures).

Other questions/comments:

- Can you cross-validate this database with the other existing sources? For instance, AidData can be a useful tool to validate an event type of aid operation.

- Do you think some measures can be also constructed using GDELT to some extent? The GDELT also includes domestic sources and provides information on different events involving different actors. Some explicit discussions about the key contributions of RAI in comparison with other data sources such as GDELT can be useful.

- Soft power is related to efforts to influence the attitudes or beliefs of others through non-coercive means. While it is often associated with engaging the public, it can also target political elites. If the study's focus is primarily on public engagement, it may be more appropriate to label such actions as public diplomacy. A more precise definition of soft power should encompass attempts to influence both publics and elites in target countries through non-coercive strategies. The distinction between soft power and hard power lies not in whether the target is the public or elites, but in the reliance on non-coercive versus coercive methods.

- The category of domestic interference includes activities "from surveillance and cyberattacks to collecting intelligence on the political opposition, engaging in cyber attacks against independent news sources, and transferring surveillance technology." Are these activities systematically captured in the news media? Some activities might be reported in the media, but due to the covert and secretive nature of these activities (especially if these activities are successful), they are not likely to be reported in the news media.

- Some of the reported findings appear somewhat intuitive. For instance, Figure 3 shows that China increased diplomatic activities in countries that switched recognition from Taiwan to the PRC. If the figure is intended to demonstrate the face validity of the data, that is understandable. Otherwise, it raises the question of what additional insights this pattern provides.

- Minor Typos/References: Citation missing for [blair2022foreign] and [@kim2024money] on p.4.